SUMMARY
rdrshifter will shift data, interpolate this data
at control locations from a DEM, and output DEM
and data values at locations where both datasets
have valid points. This code was developed to
shift terrestrial scanning radar onto a SRTM DEM.

COMPILING AND RUNNING
To compile, use make in the src directory. The
program will be created in this directory, so
cp it to the parent directory if you prefer.
The GDAL C library is needed to load in the
raster datasets.

To run, modify the sample configuration file
shift.cfg. You might use the command
./rdrshifter shift.cfg
or something similar.

INPUT AND TRANSFORMATION
Two rasters are needed: a control DEM (e.g. SRTM)
and a data DEM (e.g. a radar dem). The program
transforms the values of the data DEM with 6-DOF
and can SCALE this data. Translation is set in
meters, with positive values moving the data
east, north, and/or up. Rotation is set in
degrees CCW. Points are rotated around the scan
position location. Along the Z-axis, north-east 
points will move to the north-west. Along the 
Y-axis, high-east points will move to the low-
east. Along the X-axis, north-high points will
move to the south-high. Point-to-scanner distance
is scaled relative to 1.0. Transformations occur
in the order:
1. Rotation on the Z axis (Elevation)
2. Rotation on the Y axis (Northing)
3. Rotation on the X axis (Easting)
4. Translation in 3 dimensions
5. Scaling relative to translated origin point.

INTERPOLATION
Transformed data locations are interpolated at
Control DEM locations using an inverse-distance
weighted algorithm:
z(x) = sum(w(x')*z(x')) / w(x')
w(x') = (1/dist(x,x'))**p
p=2
where x' is the location of each nearest-neighbor
in the four quadrants NE, NW, SE, SW.

OUTPUT
If both the Control DEM and the shifted data set
have valid elevations at a given location, both
elevations are output to a tab-delimited ASCII
file according to the configuration file.

TIMING
For 10,000 points output from each data source,
this code should take around 2 seconds.
For 90,000 points, this code might take 20-30 s.

AUTHOR
Jacob Richardson, jarichardson@mail.usf.edu
